Let's now discuss the challenge of data with difficult presentation.
We know that machine learning algorithms operate on mathematical numbers,
but what about if we have video or audio or even categorical data?
There are certain techniques to deal with video and audio data
that are outside the scope of our course.
Let's focus on the categorical data.
Let's see what solutions we can do.
The first technique to represent categorical data
is the label encoding technique.
It assigns a unique number to every contributing in the feature column.
For example, let's assume that we have one feature column with countries Japan,
China, and USA.
Then we can assign one, two, and three to indicate each country respectively.
However, this approach is not recommended,
especially for datasets with too many features,
as some machine learning algorithms tend to reward
numerical values with large numbers. And this will take us
to discuss the second technique,
which is one‑hot encoding. One‑hot encoding simply converts every
category in our feature column to its separate column. And then it
assigns 1 to the feature column to indicate its presence and 0 to
the other columns. For example,
we have the following table that shows how we can encode
countries we discussed previously. In the top, we created
three columns for each category.
Then we assigned the values in the correct column for the
respective category and make other category columns 0. Here, we
would put 1 in Japan column and make China and USA columns as 0 to indicate Japan category.